Google Event
November 19, 2009
Washington, D.C.
>>Jonas Klink: All right.
Good morning, everyone.
My name is Jonas Klink.
And I'm the product manager for the accessibility
team here at Google.
And we're very, very excited to have you guys
here today.
I want to extend a really, really warm welcome
and thank you all for coming here.
I know a lot of you are local.
But it's still early in the morning.
And we're thrilled to have you here.
I think we're going to have a great event
today.
And I look forward to showing you the demo
that we have going today.
We have an agenda here behind me.
After I do the brief introduction that I'm
blocking, I'm going to hand it over to Vint
Cerf.
We're then going to have Ken and Naomi do
some demos.
Vint will come back to provide a wrap-up.
And then we'll do some Q&A towards the end.
The bulk of us, the majority, will be available
afterwards to give some additional demos,
answer more questions, anything you haven't
gotten to.
So we're really thrilled to have Vint Cerf
with us.
His title here at Google is vice president
and chief Internet evangelist.
And -- but as many of you know, he's a lot
more than that.
He's widely known as the father of the Internet,
as one of the codesigners of the TCP/IP protocol
and the basic architecture of the Internet.
He, to us, which might be widely known, he's
really, really critical as an unwavering supporter
for an accessible Internet, and especially
for those who have special access needs.
So without further ado, we're really thrilled
to have him here.
And I give you Vint Cerf.
[ Applause ]
>>Vint Cerf: Thank you, all, very, very much
for coming.
And welcome to Google's D.C. office.
It's these kinds of events that have made
us so happy to have this facility here.
And I hope during the course of 2010, we will
see you back here for other kinds of announcements
related to our work in accessibility.
Let me start out by -- I'm standing in front
of these darned slides.
How can we do this so I'm not in the way,
as I fall off the side?
Okay.
Can I get the first slide, please.
There we are.
Everyone should know by this time that Google's
motto is to organize the world's information
and make it accessible and useful.
And accessible is a really important word
in the context of what we're going to talk
about today.
Accessibility comes in a wide range of features.
There are issues for people who are deaf or
hearing-impaired, or people who have visual
impairments, who have low vision or no vision,
people who have motor problems, and things
like that.
Google believes that the world's information
should be accessible to everyone.
And our interest is in finding ways to achieve
that objective.
We're far from solving the problem completely.
But today's discussion and announcements will
show you what I consider to be an important
step in that direction.
I'm going to cheat and look at my notes.
Hold on.
And I have to use my damned glasses to do
it.
I hate to admit that I have to wear these
things.
Inside of every 66-year-old is a 16-year-old
wondering what happened.
[ Laughter ]
>>Vint Cerf: So I want to tell you, first
of all, why accessibility's personally important
to me.
Sigrid, who is in the audience over there
-- wave your hand, Sigrid -- and I are both
hearing-impaired.
Sigrid was totally deaf for 50 years.
She now has two cochlear implants.
And they work wonderfully well.
They work so well, we had to buy a bigger
house, because she wanted bigger parties,
because she could hear.
So this is a technology which is spectacular.
I've been wearing hearing aids since I was
13.
You can do the math.
That's 53 years.
So both of us care a great deal about how
technology can help people with various impairments
get access to information and be connected
with the rest of the world.
So quite apart from my job at Google, I have
great personal interest in what we're talking
about today.
You know, YouTube is another part of the Google
family.
And you saw the signs, I hope, that said Google
and YouTube are hosting this meeting.
YouTube uncovered an extraordinary desire
by the world's population to express itself
using the video medium.
And one of the big challenges of the video
medium is whether it can be made accessible
to everyone.
It's a little hard to make video accessible
to people who are blind.
You need to have some kind of descriptive
ability there.
But for people who are deaf, that's another
important area of concern, because they may
not be able to hear people speaking.
So video has turned out to be a stunningly
important new medium for personal expression.
You may not know the statistics, but there
are 23 hours of video uploaded into YouTube
every minute.
23 hours of video per minute.
Now, I have no idea how many hours of video
are actually being watched, but I think the
answer is bigger than that, although, for
some videos, it may be like blogs, the average
number of readers of a blog is probably 1.1,
the person that wrote the blog and his dog.
But these videos are often extremely popular.
And if you haven't noticed, they have become
an important medium of political expression.
You saw this very evidently in the post-Iran
elections, where many people used video and
YouTube, in particular, to tell the rest of
the world what was going on in that country.
Well, we started our life at Google as a company
that was indexing the Internet.
We crawled through all the billions of pages
on the net and we try to index them and then
help people find the information that they're
interested in.
We'd like to extend that ability to find information
to other media besides text.
And so part of what we are about at Google
is finding other ways of indexing content
that may not necessarily be purely textual
in nature.
We move very, very quickly when it comes to
new ideas.
And we usually get them out there early.
So beta testing is a very common thing for
us.
We put new products out there and find out
what people do with them.
An example of this is Google Wave, where we
put that out very, very early in its development.
And we're discovering very interesting things
about how people use this combined communication
tool, which incorporates blogging, instant
messaging, e-mail, and many other forms of
interaction.
We're very interested in picking up other
kinds of content than text.
So you see this with Google Earth.
You see it with Google Maps.
And you see it with attempts to allow people
to express information or display information
that's geographically indexed by using our
Google Earth and Google Maps facilities.
We're looking for all kinds of ways of improving
people's ability to find information.
So some of you may be using the Google Toolbar,
which we put -- or make available so that
you can easily invoke a Google search.
We're also very interested in internationalization.
We've recently announced that we are capable
of searching and translating 51 different
languages.
Now, there are some linguists in the crowd.
I'm going to pick on my good friend Marc Okrand,
who is a wonderful linguist at the National
Captioning Institute.
I know you have heard this, but I have to
tell everybody, Marc is the inventor of the
Klingon language.
He's a linguist.
And I'm sure he can appreciate the translating
51 languages into 51 other languages, which
is a nontrivial exercise.
I also have to admit that we don't do equally
well with all language pairs.
I tried Chinese to Danish while I was in Copenhagen
earlier this week.
And since I don't speak either language, I
don't know how well or poorly I did.
But I noticed there were some chuck unless
the Danish-speaking audience.
But the point here is that we recognize accessibility
as being another -- accessibility by way of
language as being another important kind of
accessibility.
So I want to get the first slide up -- or
next slide up, if I could.
It's up there now.
Okay.
So what we're seeing here are some statistics
basically, relative statistics of the number
of people who speak various languages who
are on the Internet.
But you'll notice that the blue-colored bars
illustrate people who have accessibility challenges.
So there are more people with problems of
color vision than there are Japanese or Spanish
or German or French or of the other language
speakers.
Or people with poor vision exceed and represent
a significant part of the Internet user population,
or people with poor dexterity, or people who
are deaf or hard of hearing and blind.
So what we're saying here with these data
is that there are a significant number of
people in the Internet population who will
benefit from improvements in accessibility.
And we recognize this on a global scale.
We try to serve users, all 1.7 billion of
them who are online on the Internet today.
And we would like to improve the ability of
our users who have disabilities to get access
to the information that we can provide.
So let me just give you a couple of examples
of the things that we do.
In Google Applications or Google Apps, we've
been focusing on keyboard access and the use
assistive technologies like screen-readers
to make the information available more accessible
to people who can't see.
We've released android operating system for
mobiles.
And our intent was to keep that as open as
possible.
It's an open source operating system.
People can add functionality to it.
And one of the things we would like to facilitate
is the addition of assistive methods to make
the operating system more useful in a mobile
context for people who need help.
We also released a browser called Chrome.
And in addition to its security properties,
which we believe are superior, it is also
an open platform, one in which assistive mechanisms
can be incorporated.
And, finally, YouTube itself, in 2006, added
the ability to put captions up on the YouTube
videos if the supplier of that video had captioning
transcripts available and could insert them
into the video.
So we're very interested in helping people
with that kind of information to make it easily
accessible to the rest of the world.
So I'm going to stop here and just remind
you again that Google is fully prepared to
pursue accessibility features in all of our
products and services, and we're here to tell
you about some specific ones today.
And to do that, I want to introduce my good
friend Ken Harrenstien.
Ken and I have known each other for probably
over 30 years.
I think we were two or three years old at
the time when we met.
Ken was at SRI International on the West Coast.
He and I worked on something called Deaf Net,
which was an extremely early attempt to bring
terminal access to the Internet to people
who were using TTYs and things of that kind.
I would say we had mixed results with that
experiment.
But we learned a lot from how much value there
came from having access to the Internet through
these tools.
But in the meantime, Ken has joined Google.
And of all the people that I know at Google,
Ken has been the strongest proponent and one
of the strongest technical contributors to
our accessibility initiatives.
He's very, very vocal and passionate on the
subject.
And he's going to show you what he and his
colleagues have been able to do in this area.
So, Ken, thank you so much for coming here
to the East Coast.
Let me turn the microphone over to you.
[ Applause ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: Thank you, Vint.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Ken Harrenstien.
As you can see, I'm a software engineer, and
I work for Google.
It's always such a great honor to share the
stage here with Vint.
But for me personally, it's even a bigger
honor to have all of you here, because I know
for all of us, we've worked many, many years
diligently pursuing the same goal.
We share the same frustrations.
And today I'm really happen to be able to
share something that we hope that will reach
this goal of accessibility, something we've
worked on hard.
Since some of you probably don't know a lot
about YouTube and the captioning services
that we can do, I'd like to start by reviewing
quickly some of what we already provide.
And then we'll talk about the problems that
we're facing.
And lastly, we'll talk about how we're trying
to solve those problems.
First, I'll start with a little demonstration.
This video is one we made when we first launched
captions on YouTube.
It was really fun making it.
So let me play some.
As you can see, I'm changing the size.
People want to see sometimes more video than
they want to see captions.
But if you're in the back, you may want to
see them a little bit bigger.
Is that better?
I'll explain the details later how to do it.
Also, for some people who want to see more
of the video, you can turn off the background.
That's an option.
Most people like the black background, as
it makes it easier to read.
So I'll leave it on that way.
Can you read this all right?
Is that
all right for everyone?
I should look in the back there.
Okay.
Let me play a little bit.
(Video).
(No audio).
[ Laughter ]
(Speaking French).
>>Ken Harrenstien: He's speaking French.
(Video.)
>>Ken Harrenstien: Now, Japanese is being
spoken.
This person here, his name is HIROTO.
He's our product manager.
He's done a great job.
Unfortunately, he couldn't come here today.
But he's here on video.
So what I just demonstrated is how captions
have made videos accessible to everyone.
It doesn't matter if you can hear or not.
You know, for people who don't understand
Japanese, if you don't understand sign language,
it's all made accessible through captions.
Now, suppose English isn't your first language.
This has several captions that are already
uploaded.
So I'm able to pick another language.
I'll pick this one.
And does anyone speak this?
(Non-English language).
>>Ken Harrenstien: Now, suppose in that list
of prepared captions you don't see the language
that you want.
As Vint mentioned already, we support 51 languages.
So it's possible to translate to any one of
those other languages.
Some are better than the others.
But let me show you.
See this one?
It says "translate captions."
So I'll pick that.
Now it's translating from English to -- let's
pick one.
Normally, I like to ask people to help me
pick.
But I know there's a few people who do speak
French.
So I'm going to go ahead and choose that.
>>Video: (Captions French).
>>Ken Harrenstien: What do you think?
Is it okay?
He still is speaking Japanese, but we can
read it in French.
Those things are wonderful for accessibility.
But there's another very cool benefit of having
captions.
Because they are text, we can search on them.
There's two things that we can do with that.
It helps you find the video you're looking
for.
And, secondly, it helps you find the exact
text you want within the video.
Let me show you that.
It's called a snippet.
And you can jump directly to the snippet within
the video that you're searching for.
So let me demonstrate that next.
Here, we see the page from Google.
It's an advanced video search page.
I've already put in the phrase that I want
to search for.
"That's one small step."
This is one of my favorites.
I've also checked this box "Search only closed-captioned
videos."
So we check that box.
So here we go.
I found several.
It happens to know what I want.
Now, you'll notice, it found snippets.
And you'll know that by offering this option,
start playing at search term.
So I'll click that.
And it will jump me right there.
Well, actually, it jumps to a place just a
little bit before, because it knows that you
want a little bit of context first.
It's slightly long, but I hope it's okay.
>>Video: Today, the Google lunar X-prize is
challenging free enterprise to reach much
further, to the moon, to pave the way to harnessing
its wealth of resources.
Only days away, its earth's partner in a unique
two-world system.
That's one small step for man, one giant
--
>>Ken Harrenstien: For a short video, it may
not be that important.
But if you have a really long video, this
ability is very important.
This is one of my favorite features.
And, remember -- well, I actually had the
opportunity to watch this live on TV years
ago.
But, of course, at that time, there were no
captions, as you know.
But now, I get to see it.
Those things are all there.
And they have been there in YouTube.
Since we first launched captions more than
a year ago -- I'm sorry, 2008, not '06 --
we're very surprised and pleased at how many
videos have captions.
There's a few hundred thousand videos that
are captioned within YouTube.
And we think that's a great number.
So what do you think the problem is?
Let me show you.
(Video).
>>Ken Harrenstien: Let me explain here.
I tried to figure out a way to explain without
including a lot of math what this problem
is that we're encountering.
So I came up with a visualization.
You know the network is built with a bunch
of pipes.
The Internet is built with a bunch of pipes.
It's true.
And a lot of water runs through these Internet
pipes.
And they are really video.
Okay?
I happen to have some of that video here.
[ Laughter ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: This is special water.
It happens to be captioned, captioned video.
As you see, the water has -- the bottle has
words on it.
It's captioned.
It's prepared for you. But --
(Video playing.)
>>Ken Harrenstien: This is our problem.
Remember what Vint said earlier?
Every minute we stand here and talk, people
are uploading 20 to 23 hours of video.
Not minutes.
Hours.
Not 23 videos themself.
We're talking hours.
So tons.
And that's every minute, every day.
Every month.
It just -- it's coming in.
(Video).
>>Ken Harrenstien: Okay.
So do you see any bottles there?
Can't see any.
Unfortunately, of all that content being uploaded,
just a small amount is captioned.
Very small.
[ Music ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: So the question is, who's
going to bottle that water?
At Google, we call that a problem of scale.
How to scale.
Fortunately, at Google and YouTube, our leaders
are very passionate and want to support the
solutions that address scale.
Maybe you're not familiar with that word.
But our CEO, his name is Eric Schmidt, he
loves to talk about this issue.
And he's a very clear speaker.
So I would like to borrow some of his words.
>>Video: -- tell you that it's time.
It's time for us to take advantage of the
amazing opportunity that is before us.
And that's what I want to talk about.
>>Ken Harrenstien: Do you notice anything
different about these captions?
No?
Let me play some more.
>>Video: -- today and tomorrow, you're going
to have interesting product announcements,
some fun stuff, and perhaps most important,
you're going to spend time with the best programmers
in the world who are here in the room.
>>Ken Harrenstien: Do you notice anything
different?
There's some mistakes.
What do you see?
Yes.
Yes, there's no person who made these captions.
This was machine-made.
Yes, it's true.
We did it.
This is finally it.
We got it.
[ Applause ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: Yes.
I am so excited and so proud, pleased to announce
that we are launching this, the speech recognition
and YouTube combined to make captions.
[ Applause ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: And first, a little enjoyment.
Let me add something else here.
>>Video: -- literally, you all.
And we're very excited to have you here.
From my perspective, it's time.
We have spent 20 years trying to build a programming
model that's the --
>>Ken Harrenstien: It's good, yeah?
It's good.
Completely machine-generated.
Speech recognition to English to French.
I -- when you think about that, what it means,
it's wonderful.
I mean, I just love this Internet.
It's just so exciting to see this.
I've been dreaming about this day for so many
years.
I mean, I'm just so excited to see it's actually
happened.
I do need to caution you a little bit.
For this very early launch, you can only see
those machine-generated captions we call automatic
captions, auto captions, you can only see
them for 13 educational partners who have
agreed to join into this early launch.
Of course, we want to increase that number,
add more channels and partners, as fast as
we can.
I want to show you how people will turn on
this feature when it becomes available.
Let me do another one here.
>>Video: -- details are located at that URL.
We will take submissions for the contest in
August.
Judging will occur through the fall and we'll
announce our winners in the fall.
>>Ken Harrenstien: There's no captions.
Now, you notice a new option.
It says "transcribe audio."
Let me pick that one.
What comes up is a box.
I'm not sure if all of you can read it.
It says transcribe audio is an experimental
service that uses Google's speech-recognition
technologies to provide automated captions
for video.
That box will come up every time.
I know it might be annoying, but it's very
important.
Because being an early and new launch, we
want to make it clear to people that these
captions are not from the owner of the video.
They have nothing to do with this.
We're trying to generate these for you as
best as we can.
And you will see why.
>>Video: We've learned a few things from American
Idol.
So we will have user votes as part of the
judging.
We think this contest is going to be really,
really exciting.
Number two, I'd like to announce that we're
going to give away to every conference attendee
today, all 4,000 of you --
>>Ken Harrenstien: I'll show you another
-- it's still coming on here, this example.
This man is talking about giving away Android
phones.
And he's also giving away something else that's
pretty interesting.
>>Video: We went one step further.
Included in every device --
[ Laughter ]
>>Ken Harrenstien: He's giving away salmon.
Sorry.
Not today, though.
Really, he is talking about sim, SIM, the
sim cards that we put in phones.
Context, you can sort of figure it out.
But you will see many of those types of mistakes.
And that leads me to another big thing that
I want to talk about here.
And that is quality.
Remember, our mission is to try and make all
the information accessible to everyone.
And that includes video.
But right now, we can only recognize English
and do the machine translation for English.
And within the English videos, some are not
very suitable, because there may be background
noise.
And that includes music.
That's noisy.
Strong accents, strange vocabulary.
So you will see a lot of different captions
that aren't what they're speaking.
But we are concerned about the quality.
In fact, during the development of this, we
had many discussions at Google and YouTube,
asking ourselves, is this good enough?
Should we wait until we have improvements?
Should we launch now?
I kept saying, no, don't worry about it.
I like it.
I love it.
Compared to nothing, oh, this is wonderful.
It's important to me that I know for any video,
I can get the best-quality captions possible.
I know they won't be great or perfect.
But I know, over time, we will get them better
and continue to improve.
That's important.
We'll continue improving these.
Fortunately, Google and YouTube have a strong
culture, as Vint already mentioned.
We launch early and quickly.
We do beta launches.
As fast as we can get it out there, that's
-- means the faster we get feedback, do people
like this?
Do they not like it?
What do they like?
What do they want us to focus on?
What do we work on next?
So you're part of this experiment.
In fact, that's a big reason why we've invited
all of you here today.
So you can help us.
You're the first people to see this.
And we want you to give us feedback.
We'll have plenty of time for that during
the Q&A, I hope.
And also after that.
One last thing I want to add about how to
improve the quality.
You know, machine-generated captions, these
automated captions, are not perfect.
It will -- it takes a very long time before
it will ever reach the quality of human-made
captions.
So what are we going to do about that?
So for looking at this, I'd like to take the
problem and sort of look on the other side
and see.
We've tried to lower the bar for accessibility
for those who are watching the videos.
But what about the people who own videos,
who are uploading the videos?
How do we lower the barriers for them?
To help answer that question, one of -- that
will be our next speaker.
I've kind of teased her, given her the title
as caption evangelist.
And this is Naomi.
Naomi B., are you standing here?
[ Applause ]
>>Naomi Bilodeau: Thank you, Ken.
So I thought I would start by telling you
a little bit about me.
I'm a channel owner on YouTube.
How many of you know what that means?
No idea.
Okay.
How many of you have ever uploaded a video
to YouTube?
So all of you are channel owners.
A channel owner is just somebody who's logged
into YouTube and uploaded a video.
So I'm a channel owner for Google channels
and YouTube channels.
So you can imagine, I upload a lot of video
content.
So what I'd like to talk to you about today
is, as a channel owner on YouTube, there are
three things.
First, I'm going to show you how captioning
works now in YouTube for everyone.
Second, I'm going to show you a new feature,
another new feature, also from speech recognition,
that helps channel owners.
And, third, I'm going to show you how the
automatic captioning that Ken already showed
you, how that helps channel owners with their
content captioning efforts.
So, first of all, I'm going to show you how
a channel owner would upload captions now.
This isn't new.
This has been working on YouTube since 2008.
So if I want to upload captions, the first
thing I need is a caption file.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So I'm opening this file on my desktop.
It's called EricKeynote.SBV.
This is a caption file.
There's no one caption format.
This is an example of one.
But, in fact, there's no standard.
But most caption files look pretty similar.
Let me see if this mike is on.
Excellent, it is.
So I'm going to come over here and show you
what's in this file.
You're probably not familiar with this.
At the top of the file, I have some numbers.
In fact, that line contains two numbers, separated
by a comma.
I first number tells YouTube or any video
player when to start playing the text.
The second number tells it when to stop playing
the text.
And then below it, we have text.
And in this example, these captions actually
tell me a little bit about what's going on.
The first text says "man" and then there's
a colon.
So I know who's speaking.
Then there's a line break and it says "ladies
and gentlemen" and there's a comma.
And then the next caption starts.
You can see, again, we have a time code.
As we go through the file, this file is just
text.
I can open it in any text editor.
We have every single caption that I want to
show in the video.
So anybody who can prepare a file like this
can add captions to their video.
This is much easier than doing video production.
Let me show you how this works.
So I'm going to go back into YouTube here,
I'm going to close this file.
Goodbye, file.
And I'm going to go find that video.
Oh, sorry.
I've just forgotten what file that was.
Okay, it's Eric's keynote.
Let's go Google I/O keynote, day two.
And this is actually one of the videos that
I uploaded on my channel, which is called
the Google developer's channel.
If you went to the URL, you would find my
videos.
Here it is.
Here's the keynote.
You've seen this video already; right?
Do you remember -- Let me turn that off.
It's noisy.
Okay.
So I click over here on captions and subtitles.
This option appears because I'm the video
owner.
And I click add new captions or transcript,
and I choose my file.
And I go over here.
Here's my file, Eric keynote.SBV.
I choose it and give it the language.
Ken showed you a video that had lots of different
languages.
I can add different languages here.
I tell it what language the video is in, English.
I say, upload it, go.
There it is.
So here I can click on "English."
And here's my time code file.
So here we are in YouTube.
I have time codes.
I have start time code, end time code.
Here's the text.
YouTube knows all that information that was
in my text file and it can use it to play
those captions on the video.
This is my file.
I own it.
If I want to, I can go download the caption
file later if I don't remember where I stored
it.
And I can take that file, send it out to translation,
and then I can get a French or Spanish version
or maybe a Klingon version.
I don't think Klingon is officially supported
on YouTube.
But we could upload them.
Let me go back.
That's how we uploaded captions to video on
YouTube.
When I saw this feature, I got really excited.
This is how I met Ken and how I became a caption
evangelist at Google.
I thought, this is amazing.
I have to go forth and caption every video
that Google posts, because this is so easy
and so awesome.
We have to go do this.
So that worked out really well for me.
But I looked around, and I noticed there weren't
a lot of channels that were captioning their
videos.
And I wondered why that was.
And I think the reason is, uploading videos
to YouTube is really easy.
It's simple.
But preparing a time code file is hard for
a lot of people.
Imagine a young teenager who's uploading videos
for their friends to YouTube.
They're not going to have this kind of expertise
and they're probably not going to be that
interested in learning.
So could we make this any easier?
And the answer is, yes.
So now I'm going to show you a second new
feature.
This new feature is called automatic timing
for captions on YouTube.
And this is something that all channel owners,
once we launch this later this week, all channel
owners on YouTube will be able to do this.
So the first question is, okay, so to do this,
rather than make a caption file, what I'm
going to show you is a transcript file.
Here's an example of one for a video we shot
last week.
This is a video we're going to post to the
Google blog.
It shows you how to use all these features.
So here's the text.
We prepared the text ahead of time, because
when we were shooting the video, we didn't
want to make mistakes.
We filmed this text.
We have somebody speaking it in the voiceover.
So I already have this.
Now I'm going to go into YouTube, and I'm
going to go to my channel.
Here's my videos.
I'm going to click here on "captions."
This is just -- if you're a channel owner,
you might be familiar with this view.
This is where you can see all of your videos.
And in this view, the button says "captions."
But it's actually taking us to the same page
here.
And now I can click "add new captions or transcript."
I'm going to choose a file, just like I did
before.
And I say, okay, now I have this option here.
We -- our old file we did, that was a captioned
file.
Now there's another option in YouTube that
says "transcript file."
It says "English only," because this is relying
on speech-to-text technology, right now, we
can only do that for English.
And I say, okay, upload file, go.
This is going to take a little while.
So I'm going to talk.
One of the things that I think is important
to mention, Ken has already told you why captions
-- I'm going to take this so I can wander
around -- Ken has already told you why captions
are important for viewers.
And you know why they're important for viewers,
because you're viewers.
But I'm a channel owner.
So I want to tell you why this is important
for me.
Captions are important to me because I want
to reach a bigger audience.
If I caption my videos, I can reach deaf and
hard of hearing audience, I can reach people
who may be immigrants to the United States,
who read English well but don't understand
it well when it's spoken.
I can reach people who hadn't found my video
except they did a search and the caption file
came up.
So you can see that as a video owner, by adding
a captioned file to my video, whether I'm
doing it from a captioned file or a transcript,
as I'm about to show you, adding these captions
make that video much more useful and much
more accessible to a really wide audience.
So, to me as a channel owner, this is really
important and exciting.
Because I want my videos to be watched by
as many people as possible.
Okay.
Let me actually go back -- actually, it's
done.
I'm going to do this in different order because
it finished so quickly.
Hang on.
Let me show you what's happened.
Remember, we uploaded that video file?
Let me show you the file in case you've forgotten
while I was telling you about how awesome
captions are.
Here's what the file is, just text.
And I go here.
And now I have this in YouTube.
You see there are time codes here?
So what YouTube did is it took my transcript
file and it went through it and it said, when
were these words spoken aloud in the video?
And it computed a time code.
And then it calculated the time code for me.
So I don't have to go to all the trouble of
figuring out where those time codes are.
I don't know if any of you have ever tried
to make a caption file, but it's a little
bit fiddley.
So YouTube did this for me.
All I had to have was the text, and I already
had it.
Now I have a caption file.
I can download it.
Let me show you.
Here it is.
It's gone to my desktop.
Let's go open it.
Here's the file.
It's called captions .SBV.text.
Oh, look, caption file.
Let me show you these side by side so you
can really see the difference.
Okay.
So here on the left --
[ Applause ]
>>Naomi Bilodeau: So you guys are applauding
me because I'm the one up here with the mike.
But I really have to thank the guys on the
Google audio team who built the amazing speech-to-text
technology that makes this happen and the
people at YouTube and people like Ken.
There's a lot of pieces at Google that all
came together to make this happen.
I'm just standing up here with the mike telling
you how awesome this is.
So let me tell you how awesome this is.
Over here, we have the time codes.
You can see, if you look at the original transcript,
it's actually put in line breaks for me.
Where I had line breaks, it's respecting them.
You can see today starts on its own line.
And again in the caption file, it starts on
its own line.
So if I, as the video owner, want to control
where the line breaks are, I can put in line
breaks, and they'll come through to the caption.
And if I don't know what I'm doing and I don't
care, I can make one big long paragraph and
it will break it into nice-length captions.
I can -- I downloaded this file from YouTube.
You saw that wasn't very hard.
I can take that file and send it for translation.
I might want to adjust where the caption breaks
are.
I can do that, 'cause I have all the time
codes.
Now I'm going to show you one last thing.
Let's go back to Safari.
Let's go back all the way.
Let me find that video.
Google I/O keynote.
I want to find the video that Ken showed you
with Vic Gundotra speaking.
Let's see.
It's part 10, the one where he gives away
the phones.
Here it is.
Okay.
So I'm the channel owner.
I own this video.
And this video happens to have been machine-transcribed
using the caption transcript feature that
Ken showed you.
So if I go into captions and subtitles, I'm
just clicking here as the owner, I see this
track here.
It says English, machine transcription.
What is this?
This is the speech-to-text transcript that
was provided for me.
So I can click on this.
And you see here, I have time codes.
I have text.
No person created these time-coded captions.
In some cases, they will be pretty bad.
In other cases, like this one, they're actually
quite good.
So I can go over here, click download.
Let's go back to my desktop to find it.
Where did it go?
It's this one, I think.
Captions 1.SBV.
Here it is.
It's the time-coded file, produced by machine.
And I can go in and I can find that line about
the salmon.
I can fix it.
And I can reupload it.
So what this technology has done as a channel
owner is, it's saved me an awful a lot of
typing.
So I've just shown you some new features from
the channel owner's side that we really hope
are going to help more channel owners add
more captions to their videos.
With that, I'd like to hand this back to Vint.
[ Applause ]
>>Vint Cerf: Well, you've just seen how powerful
computing technology can be, especially when
all the different parts of communications
can be linked together.
And here, you've seen the merging of various
kinds of technology, speech-to-text, we haven't
got text-to-speech demonstrated here, but
we do that, too.
What's important here is the enabling capability
that you've just seen.
I'll be very interested to hear from Marc
Okrand and others whose work involves producing
these things.
My guess is that this kind of technology can
make this whole process much more efficient,
and, therefore, much easier and perhaps less
costly to accomplish, which means more video
can be captioned.
Now, we have an opportunity to do some Q&A.
I'm going to go to that in just a moment.
I actually have a bunch of questions myself
for my colleagues.
So if no one else asks anything, I've got
a whole bunch of them, just listening to what's
going on here.
But this is simply a stunning example of what
happens when you put technologists together
with different kinds of expertise.
We have a research group -- I'm part of that
group, although I don't claim to have contributed
very much, and certainly nothing here except
enthusiasm.
But what's important is that the speech understanding
group, the speech recognition group, had to
come together with the people who understood
ways in which to do captions.
Now, here's something interesting about what
you just saw.
The way the captions work in the YouTube world
is different from the way the captions work
in today's video world.
You are aware, I'm sure, of the late '70s,
when we had line 21 captioning, and we fought
very hard, some of us, to put that in, even
though there were people saying, well, there
were better ways to do it and we should wait
until video text was available, because it
would have a wider variety of symbols that
could be expressed.
And most of us said, the heck with that.
Just get something up so we can appreciate
video like everyone else does.
Then, of course, we've come to high-definition
television.
By the way, I should tell you that YouTube
has just announced that it can put up 1080P,
the highest resolution, highest definition
that you can watch on YouTube.
So we're moving ahead with the rest of the
industry.
But some of you probably know that high-definition
captioning hasn't worked terribly well.
It's, I would say, erratic.
The Federal Communications Commission has
a whole group assigned to work on that problem.
And I can tell you that on behalf of Google,
I'm going to be digging as deep into that
as I can.
But what's very interesting about what you're
seeing here is that the captions are being
delivered differently than they are with traditional
television.
They are distinct and separate channels, so
to speak, not in the sense that Naomi was
talking about, but in the sense of the source
of the captions is independent of the video.
They're obviously linked together by the time
codes.
But because they are segregated, we can do
all these things to manipulate the text file.
We can translate from one language to another.
We can automatically do the partitioning.
We can give you the transcript so you can
do editing on it.
You don't have to have all the kinds of equipment
that are needed to decode the captions or
to encode the captions.
It's a separate process.
This separation of the two media, the text
medium and the video medium, creates opportunities
that would not otherwise exist.
And so when you think about things like I.P.
TV, you should not be thinking of just generating
and distributing a kind of condensed combined
medium, but, rather, one in which the separation
is important because of the ability to manipulate
it.
And so if we're looking towards the future
of this medium, the ability to separately
manage these different streams is absolutely
critical.
Oddly enough, there is something kind of like
that in the video world where you have different
audio overlays.
You can have different channels with different
audio for Spanish and English and French and
so on.
But here, we are keeping these media distinct
and manipulable.
I don't have much to say in closing, except
I want to acknowledge some people who have
made this happen.
And to do that, if you'll hold onto the microphone
for a minute.
Glasses again.
Okay.
So -- I hate paper -- there.
Okay, so not everyone is here, but a lot of
people are here.
I'm going to name the folks who are here,
and plus a few that aren't.
I want them to please stand up and accept
our recognition of the wonderful work that's
been done.
So Ken Harrenstien, will you stand up for
a minute.
[ Applause ]
>>Vint Cerf: And Naomi.
And Toliver Jue, where is Toliver?
Okay.
There.
Greg Millam?
Is Greg here?
Chris Alberti.
Michiel Bacchiani.
[ Applause ]
>>Vint Cerf: And you saw Hiroto Tokusei.
But he isn't here.
He's off in Japan.
But we thank him for his work, too.
And Jonas Klink, finally.
[ Applause ]
>>Vint Cerf: You see these tee shirts.
And they are indicative of Google's determination
to make accessibility a part, a real part,
of its motto and its objectives in the world.
I hope that we're going to see lots of other
tee shirts with lots of other indications
of accessibility progress that we make at
Google.